Major Points
------------

The abstract should be re-written such that it conforms with the
University's requirement for length.  It should also present the main
results of the thesis, rather than record the work which was done.  In
the view of the examiners it should emphasise the following results.
1) The scheduler look-ahead horizon is best placed at a timescale just
short of that for the stability of the observing environment.  2) The
naivety of assuming that there is a single metric whose optimisation
will always lead to the best schedule.  3) Once a metric has been
chosen, the proof that it can be weighted in the scheduler to give
optimal results.

The results sections of Chapters 6 to 13 need strengthening to draw
quantitative conclusions.  First the box and whisker plots need
explaining.  The for each experiment how much better a given metric is
than the baseline, averaged over many nights needs to be quoted, but
then also a statistic such as the number of nights the improved
technique delivers a metric which exceeds the baseline.  The baseline
may be the dispatch scheduler, or a random scheduler as appropriate.
If a statement is made indicating the presence or absence of a
correlation, this needs to be backed up by a statistical test; if the
same test and same minimum level of significance are used throughout
then this needs only to be stated the first time.

On more than one occasion, the data in a figure are inconsistent with
the description of the analysis undertaken to produce those data. For
example, p200 states that horizon lengths from 0.5-4 hours were used
to produce Fig. 10.10, but there are data points here for a 6-hour
horizon length. Table 12.2 and Fig. 12.5 is another example. And
Fig. 13.1 could not have been produced from the description in Section
13.2 that only \tau_E=1 hour was used.

Minor points
------------

Page 71, paragraph four is not well justified.  An example or estimate
of how long it takes would be good.

The notation which begins in Equation 7 on page 74 is confusing.  First
I assume "*" means multiply by.  It could be taken as "convolve with"
so is probably best dropped entirely since adjacent terms implies
multiplication. I'm confused about what the index j may refer to.  I
think its simplest if it is a unique identifier for each group, at
which point the sum should run over all js which were observed.  I'm
not clear what the rule given under the sigma sign means.  The first
time this appears it should be explained in words.

There is some notational inconsistency. For example, the execution
time of a group is given by x_j, X_g, and X(g) at various points in
Chapter 7, while the stability time-scale is given the notation
\tau_E, \Delta_E and \DeltaE in Chapter 10.

Page 87. The caption claims that 11.94 hours were lost per month on
average, but the horizontal line in the plot is at a completely
different value.

Page 90 (and others). In many cases, multiple sentences appear
identically in the text and in a table/figure caption. A caption
should describe the content of a table, while conclusions drawn should
appear in the text. In the case of Table 4.1, the caption is the
correct place for this information and it should be deleted from the
text on page 89.

Page 93. The last sentence of the third paragraph should be
deleted. There is simply not enough data to draw this
conclusion. 

Page 94. The claim that 80.35% of weather is "good" is made twice,
once (p94) on the basis of Fig. 4.11, while on p96 it is claimed that
this result is due to Fig. 4.12. A different figure of 80.03% appears
in the Fig. 4.13 caption.

Page 106.  The commonly held belief is that the seeing takes some time
to settle after dusk (which is believed to be due to the time taken
for the telescope and air in the enclosure to reach the equilibrium
temperature outside, so might be less pronounced for the LT's
enclosure), whereas the plot you show only shows there is not a
systematic trend as a function of UT.  To disprove the commonly held
belief you need to plot the seeing as a function of time since sunset.
You must either do this or weaken your statement.  I'd be surprised if
the effect was not there, as the solar astronomers get up early
specifically to get the good seeing in the first half of the day.  So
if there is one part of the day when the seeing degrades, there must
me some time when it improves.  (Unless of course the solar
astronomers are also suffering a mis-apprehension.)

Section 5.4.2: How is the "Solar elevation" constraint different from
the "Daytime" constraint?

Chapter 7 perhaps sets the expectations of the reader in an unhelpful
way.  I was expecting this chapter to show what a poor scheduler HS1
was compared to a machine.  Of course to do that you would need a
single metric, which we now understand is naive. So, instead you
define HS1's schedule as a good one, and see how the weights have to
be set to achieve that.  Now, if you began the Chapter by saying that
more explicitly, then this would help.

The "Availability" in Table 7.3 is not defined until page 212 and,
even then, the meaning of "*" is not given.

On page 200 you claim that from Fig. 10.10 that "some of the time BDS
beats all QLAS examples". The BDS results do not appear in this
figure so how is this conclusion drawn? In Fig. 10.11 the BDS average
is given as 74, in which case this claim is wrong. It also appears as
a conclusion for this chapter.

On page 209 is the sentence "After investigation it was concluded that
the following types of event were of most significance". What sort of
investigation and how was this conclusion reached?

In Fig. 13.1, the y-axis is Q_SU/Q_0 (so not Q_SU as is written in the
figure) with Q_0 being Q_SU when q_E=1 (it does not have units of
minutes as stated in the figure). So why are the points at q_E=1 not
all *exactly* 1?

On page 233 you say that the look ahead scheduler is slow, it needs
some indication of how slow (needs only be to factor of five).

Typos: general
-----

There are times when you use "program" (which should only be used to
refer to a computer program) when you mean "programme".

There are times when references in brackets then have brackets around
the date (e.g. the first sentence of the first bullet point on page
29), when the correct thing to do is separate the date and authors by
a comma (as you do in the first bullet point on page 30).

There should not be a space between the last word of a sentence and a
question mark.

There are several instances of "upto" which should be replaced with
"up to".

Lists in the text are most commonly presented as lower-case Roman
numerals -- (i), (ii), etc. -- but sometimes as (a), (b) (e.g., p.43).
There should be consistency.

When stating explicitly what questions are asked (e.g. page 129
Section 5.3.3.) you need to close up spaces between question marks and
their preceding words.  There is an argument that quotation marks
would be better than italics for the questions.

The figure numbering sometimes seems to miss out the Chapter
(e.g. page 167).

Typos: specific
---------------

p 19. "progrmy" - > programme

p 19/26: "de los Roches" -> "del Roque"

p 27.  The first line below the figure caption has a real brackets
disaster.  I suggest "(OSS-A; Fraser, 2004)".

p 38.  First sentence of simulated annealing.  "statictical" -> "statistical"

p 45 later -> latter

p 46 satisfycing -> satisfying

p 46, third paragraph.  There is another referencing brackets problem,
and a double full-stop after the first (rather long) sentence.

p 51, Eqn 1. The first summation should presumably be i=1 to n (n is
missing above the Sigma). The numerator is also incorrect in that the
two terms are identical.

p 54 additonal -> additional

p 55 loose -> lose

p 58.  Last paragraph.  "likelyhood" -> "likelihood". This sentence is
not a sentence.

p 59 end of second paragraph.  ") (" -> "; ".

p 60 The first full stop should be a comma.

p 62, para 3.  "ID3 (" -> "(ID3; "

p 64 enforcment -> enforcement

p 65 CABINs -> CABINS (last paragraph)

p 67 quantative -> quantitative

p 69.  Full stop required at end of paragraph 2.  Figure caption "asnew" -> "as new".

p 70 later -> latter (line 11)

p 70 "minimum seeing constraint" -> maximum (presumably!), and end of
this sentence needs to be rewritten accordingly

p 70 likeliness -> likelihood

p 70.  The footnote needs a full stop.

p 71 Eqn 6, extra right parenthesis

p 73, third sentence of bullet point.  "cant" -> "cannot".

p 74.  Full stop required at the end of the page.

The bullet points beginning on page 75 all need the definite article as the first word.

p 75, next to the last paragraph end with a double full stop.

p 76 line 5.  Move "correction" to after the reference.  In the last line proposals should not be capitalised.

p 77.  Equation 13 is missing a ")" in the numerator.

p 78.  Last bullet point "metrics" -> "metric".

p 79, second bullet point.  "Thse" -> "These".

p 82 perfom -> perform

p 82.  The sentence introducing the forms of technical faults must be
a sentence, and hence end in a full stop, but will also need changing,
then, to be grammatical.

p 83 catastrophy -> catastrophe

p 85 "Figs 1(a), 1(b) and 1(c)" -> "Fig. 4.1"

p 89 The last paragraph of Section 4.3.1 effectively repeats the first
bullet point of this section, except 20 months has now become 30 months.

p 90 excede -> exceed

Figs 4.1-4.4 The cumulative distribution on the right-hand axis needs
numerical labels.

p 97, Equations 14.  "tau" -> \tau (LaTeX command).  A definition of
T_G is required.

p 101, first line.  "wherethe" -> "where the".

p 104, \lambda should be divided by \lambda_R

p 111, rayleigh -> Rayleigh

p 111, vapor -> vapour

p 112, you need to define CAMC (it's not in the Glossary)

p 112.  Presumably the 0.11 mags/airmass is during Calima.  Can you
make this clear (either way)?  There is an extra full stop at the end
of Section 4.4.4, and the space between all your Roman numerals and
the following ")" needs removing in all cases.

p 119 principle -> principal

p 121.  There are inconsistencies between the text and Figure 5.1 with
some objects absent, and others with slightly different names.

p 124 "x ?." -> "x?"

p 127, The "SFL" (end of page) is called the "SCL" in Fig.5.1 and the
"SFCL" in Section 5.6. Use consistent notation!

p 128 first line.  "scheduler need" -> "the scheduler needs".

p 129 "t ?." -> "t?"

p 130 measurments -> measurements

p 132 infeasible -> unfeasible

p 133.  Introduction to Section 5.5.1.   The time differential dot is displaced on the Q.  Just below this "include" is mis-spelt.

p 133 differtial -> derivative; equivelant -> equivalent

p 141 nights -> night's

p 144 Stochastic execution model: the first sentence here is not a
sentence.

p 146 Sections 6.5 and 6.6 should be 6.4.1 and 6.4.2 since they are
individual schedulers and hence daughters of Section 6.4, "Scheduler
implementations"

p 150 Eqn 19: Since g is a function of q, qbar, t, and H, what do g(0)
and g(1) mean?

p 152 "group ?." -> "group?"

p 154 Table 7.2 Sentences 4 and 5 of the caption are effectively
identical to sentences 2 and 3.

p 160 guage -> gauge

Fig 7.3 subscript w_el on x-axis of plot

Chapter 8: Figure numbers wrong in text (and in later chapters)

p 164 astronimicaly -> astronomically

p 167 line 2.  "opresented" -> presented, represnting -> representing

p 167 unnaffected -> unaffected

p 180 servral -> several

p 181 infact -> in fact

p 181 Table 9.1, replace "more detail required" with this detail

p 184 "the main features": only one feature is described and this is
not backed up with a statstical analysis, nor is it obvious.

p 187, the figures state Sep 15 and Oct 25 but Table 9.1 has Sep 25
and Oct 15.

p 189, the y-axis of Fig. 9.5 should extend to 85 as with all the
other plots.

p 195, no parentheses required in last 2 lines

p 202, appearsd -> appears (Fig. 10.9 caption)

p 205, bottom line.  "distincty" -> "distinctly"

p 207 effected -> affected (fig caption)

p 208 Phase II -> Phase 2

p 208 principle -> principal

p 209 end of first paragraph, there is a double full stop

p 210 effect -> affect (twice)

p 210 diffence -> difference

p 211 "for [a] groups"

p 211, middle of the page. "effect" -> "affect".

p 211 "4 ADD_GROUP end 4 UPDATE_SEQ": end -> and

p 215 line 7.  "accasions" -> occasions.

p 216 The last sentence of Section 12.4 is surely wrong. The number of
events to be injected is the largest number k such that r>Sum(i=0-k){P(i)}.

p 217 needs a full stop at the end of the page.

p 222 middle of the paragraph.  There seems to be something missing.

p 227 assignements -> assignments

p 230, second paragraph.  "investigation" -> "investigations".

p 231, line 4.  "increases" -> "increase".

p 232 principle -> principal

p 236 Infact -> In fact

p 238 likelyhood -> likelihood
